# Password Reset Client

The Password Reset Client allows users to securely reset their password or unlock their account from
the Windows Logon and Unlock Computer screens. Users click **Reset Password** to access the Password
Reset system.

![the_password_reset_client](/img/product_docs/passwordreset/3.23/administration/the_password_reset_client_1.webp)

**NOTE:** The Password Reset Client does not modify any Windows system files.

## Installing the PRC

The Password Reset Client is designed to run on Windows XP to Windows 10, and Server 2003 to
Server 2019. The PRC is compatible with Remote Desktop Services on these operating systems. Support
for Windows XP and Server 2003 is depreciated because the PRC uses Internet Explorer for page
rendering, and Internet Explorer 8 has very limited support for HTML5. Send an e-mail to
[support@netwrix.com ](mailto:support@anixis.com)if you need to use the Password Reset Client with
these older operating systems.

### System Requirements

- Windows Vista, 7, 8, 8.1, or 10.  
  Windows Server 2008, 2008 R2, 2012, 2012 R2, 2016, or 2019.  
  Windows XP, Server 2003, or 2003 R2 (depreciated).
- 1 Megabyte free disk space.
- 128 Kilobytes free RAM (per session if using Remote Desktop Services).

You can install the PRC manually if you only have a few computers, but it is easier to perform an
automated installation if you have many computers. Follow the instructions below to perform an
automated installation with Group Policy.

### Create a Distribution Point

A distribution point can either be a UNC path to a server share, or a DFS (Distributed File System)
path. Organizations with large, multi-site networks should use DFS as it offers fault tolerance and
load sharing. To create a PRC distribution point:

**Step 1 –** Log on to a server as an administrator.

**Step 2 –** Create a shared network folder to distribute the files from.

**Step 3 –** Give the Domain Computers security group read access to the share, and limit write
access to authorized personnel only.

**Step 4 –** Copy APRClt323.msi into the distribution point folder.

**NOTE:** APRClt323.msi is in the Client folder below the APR Server's installation folder.
(`\Program Files\ANIXIS Password Reset\` by default).

**Step 5 –** Give the Domain Computers security group read access to the APRClt323.msi file in the
distribution point.

### Create a Group Policy Object

**Step 1 –** Start the Group Policy Management Console (gpmc.msc).

**Step 2 –** Expand the forest and domain items in the left pane.

**Step 3 –** Right-click the domain root node in the left pane, and then click **Create a GPO in
this domain, and Link it here...**

**Step 4 –** Enter **Password Reset Client**, then press **ENTER**.

![the_password_reset_client_1](/img/product_docs/passwordreset/3.23/administration/the_password_reset_client_1.webp)

### Edit the Group Policy Object

**Step 1 –** **Right-**Click the **Password Reset Client GPO**, then click the Edit**...** button.

**Step 2 –** Expand the **Computer Configuration**, **Policies**, and **Software Settings** items in
the left pane.

**Step 3 –** **Right-Click** the **Software installation** item, and then select **New** >
**Package**.

**Step 4 –** Enter the full UNC path to APRClt323.msi in the Open dialog box.

**NOTE:** You must enter a UNC path so that other computers can access this file over the network.
For example, \\file server\distributionpointshare\APRClt323.msi

**Step 5 –** Click **Open**.

**Step 6 –** Select the **Assigned deployment** method, then click **OK**.

**Step 7 –** Close the Group Policy Management Editor.

### Complete the Installation

Restart each computer to complete the installation. Windows installs the Password Reset Client
during startup. The computer may restart itself automatically to complete the installation.

**NOTE:** Computers with Fast Logon Optimization enabled may not install the Password Reset Client
during the first restart. These computers perform a background refresh of Group Policy, and will
install the client on the first restart after the refresh. Microsoft article
[305293](http://support.microsoft.com/kb/305293) has more information about the Fast Logon
Optimization feature.

## Configuring the PRC

You must install an Active Directory administrative template to configure the Password Reset Client.
The administrative template only has to be installed once.

Install PRC Administrative Template

Follow the steps below to install the PRC administrative template.

**Step 1 –** Use the Group Policy Management Console (gpmc.msc) to display the GPOs linked at the
domain level.

**Step 2 –** **Right-click** the **Password Reset Client** GPO, and then **click** the
**Edit...**button.

**Step 3 –** Expand the **Computer Configuration** item.

**Step 4 –** Expand the **Policies** item if it is visible.

**Step 5 –** **Right-click** the **Administrative Templates** item, and then click **Add/Remove
Templates...**

**Step 6 –** Click **Add...** and then browse to the Client folder below the Password Reset Server's
installation folder. (`\Program Files\ANIXIS Password Reset\` by default).

**Step 7 –** Select **APRClt.adm**, and then click **Open**.

![the_password_reset_client_2](/img/product_docs/passwordreset/3.23/administration/the_password_reset_client_2.webp)

**Step 8 –** Click **Close**.

Configure the PRC

Follow the steps below to configure the Password Reset Client.

**Step 1 –** Use the Group Policy Management Console (gpmc.msc) to display the GPOs linked at the
domain level.

**Step 2 –** **Right-click** the **Password Reset Client** GPO, then click the **Edit...** button.

**Step 3 –** Expand the **Computer Configuration, Policies** (if it exists), **Administrative
Templates**, **Classic Administrative Templates (ADM)**, **ANIXIS Password Reset**, and **Password
Reset Client** items.

**Step 4 –** Double-click the **Browser settings** item in the right pane of the Group Policy
Management Editor.

![the_password_reset_client_3](/img/product_docs/passwordreset/3.23/administration/the_password_reset_client_3.webp)

**Step 5 –** Select the **Enabled** option.

![the_password_reset_client_4](/img/product_docs/passwordreset/3.23/administration/the_password_reset_client_4.webp)

**Step 6 –** Enter the desired **Width** and **Height** of the PRC browser window.

**NOTE:** Set the Width and Height to 0 to have the PRC calculate an appropriate size.

**Step 7 –** Enter the **Start address** (URL) of the Password Reset system. The URL should point to
the Password Reset menu or reset page.

**NOTE:** See the **Help** box for more information.

**Step 8 –** Enter a **Restricted path** (URL) to stop users from following links to other sites
from the Password Reset Client browser.

**Step 9 –** Click **OK**.

**Step 10 –** Close the Group Policy Management Editor.

The new PRC configuration is applied to all computers in the domain. This does not happen
immediately, as Windows takes some time to apply the changes to Group Policy. You can force an
immediate refresh of Group Policy on the local computer with the following command: gpupdate
/target:computer

The Password Reset Client only opens URLs with .dll, .htm, and .html extensions. URLs without a
filename are not opened. The PRC also blocks some page content, including audio and video files,
ActiveX controls and Java applets. Send an e-mail to
[support@netwrix.com ](mailto:support@anixis.com)if you need to change the default filename and
content restrictions.

**CAUTION:** Users may follow links to untrusted sites if the Password Reset user interface or
server error pages contain external links. This is a security risk because the Password Reset Client
runs under the context of the local system account. Specify a restricted path to stop users from
following links to other sites from the Password Reset Client. The start address and restricted path
should both begin with https://

**NOTE:** The **Enable Password Reset Client**, **Always show reset link**, and **Dialog attachment
delay** are automatically set by the Password Reset Client, and are normally left in their default
(Not configured) state.  
The administrative template contains detailed information about all the PRC configuration settings.
This information is shown on the **Help** box. The **Help** box is shown after you double-click one
of the configuration settings in the right pane.

## Licensing the PRC

Follow the steps below to add a license key to the PRC configuration.

**Step 1 –** Open the **Configuration Console** and install your license key.

**Step 2 –** Start the **Registry Editor** (regedit.exe).

**Step 3 –** Expand the **HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE**, **SOFTWARE**, **ANIXIS**, **ANIXIS Password Reset**,
and **3.0** registry keys.

**Step 4 –** Double-click the **LicenseKey** value, and then copy the entire license key to the
clipboard.

**Step 5 –** Use the Group Policy Management Console (gpmc.msc) to display the GPOs linked at the
domain level.

**Step 6 –** Right-click the **Password Reset Client** GPO, then click the **Edit...** button.

**Step 7 –** Expand the **Computer Configuration**, **Policies** (if it exists), **Administrative
Templates**, **Classic Administrative Templates (ADM)**, **ANIXIS Password Reset**, and **Password
Reset Client** items.

**Step 8 –** Double-click the **License key** item in the right pane of the Group Policy Management
Editor.

**Step 9 –** Select the **Enabled** option.

**Step 10 –** Click inside the **License key** text box, then paste the license key.

![the_password_reset_client_5](/img/product_docs/passwordpolicyenforcer/10.2/password_reset/administration/the_password_reset_client_5.webp)

**Step 11 –** Click **OK**.

**Step 12 –** Close the Group Policy Management Editor.

The license key is applied to all computers in the domain. This does not happen immediately, as
Windows takes some time to apply the changes to Group Policy. You can force an immediate refresh of
Group Policy on the local computer with the following command: `gpupdate /target:computer`
