# PingCastle Standard and Basic User Guide

## About PingCastle

"For CISO, by CISO"

PingCastle was born based on a finding: security based only on
technology does not work. That\'s why the company focuses on process and
people rather than just technology. PingCastle does not sell products !

The company does not provide solutions to protect your infrastructure.
Instead, it provides tools to discover what you have to protect,
evaluate its security level and provide insights on if the budget you
have provided has been successfully used.

PingCastle\'s objective is not to reach a perfect security but to
impulse changes using the management. And with low effort, I think
you\'ll get support to change the situation !

Vincent LE TOUX

## License

The source code of the program is licensed to the Non-Profit Open
Software License ("Non-Profit OSL") 3.0.

1.  Regarding the binary code, Being part of a commercial package is
    forbidden except if a license is purchased. Check the \"our
    services\" section on https://www.pingcastle.com for more
    information.

The program is allowed to run only during its support date. Support can
be extended by purchasing additional support.

Methodology

The PingCastle tool is just one part of a global methodology aiming at
securing Active Directories.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image1.png)

You can get more information about this methodology by visiting the
website https://www.pingcastle.com/methodology/

# How to use PingCastle

The following sections describe how to use PingCastle.

![https://www.pingcastle.com/wp/wp-content/uploads/2018/09/pingcastle_dezipped-1.png](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image2.png)

## Requirements

Active Directory Account

The PingCastle program needs an Active Directory account to connect to
the AD to audit. No requirements is needed for this account. It can be
an account without any privileges or even an account from a trusted
domain. This account doesn't require to be part of the local
administrators group.

Server Side

There is no requirement on the server side.

However it is strongly recommended (but not mandatory) for performance
reasons to install on the server side a component named "Active
Directory Web service" aka ADWS. It is installed by default on any
domain where at least one domain controller has the OS Windows 2008 R2
or later. Having this component installed can divide the time required
to compute the report by a factor of 10.

ADWS can be installed manually on [Windows 2003 and Windows 2008](http://www.microsoft.com/fr-fr/download/details.aspx?id=2852) [require .NET Framework 3.5SP1](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=25150).
The hot fix that may be needed for these OS is located [here](http://hotfixv4.microsoft.com/.NET%20Framework%203.5%20-%20Windows%202000,%20Windows%20Server%202003,%20Windows%20XP,%20Windows%20Vista,%20Windows%20Server%202008%20%28MSI%29/sp1/DevDiv758402/30729.4174/free/392858_intl_x64_zip.exe).

Client side

1.  PingCastle requires .Net 4, available on all modern OS. However it
    can be compiled to run manually on .Net2. It fulfill then the
    following requiement:

The program is supported on every Operating System supported by
Microsoft without the installation of any component nor any local
privilege.\
From Windows Vista to Windows 10 and Windows 2008 to Windows 2016 in
both 32 and 64 bits.\
In addition, the program is known to be working on Windows 2000 with the
.net framework 2, Windows XP and Windows 2003.

The analysis tool (PingCastle.exe) requires DotNet 3.0 (or next
versions) which is available by default since Windows Vista. It can be
run under DotNet 2.0 but with fewer functionalities.

Starting from PingCastle 2.7, PingCastle.exe can be run without the
.config file next to the program. But in this case, the program will be
run under the .Net framework where it has been compiled (and not the
other .Net framework). Windows does show a popup to suggest the
installation of the missing framework.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image3.png)

## How it works

PingCastle is a standalone program (not requiring installation) which
produces reports for human or machine.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image4.png)

PingCastle reads its own machine readable reports to build analysis or
dashboard.

Installation

PingCastle Basic Edition is provided in a zip file. You need a program
such as 7zip or the native unzip program to decompress the file.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image5.png)

For the most operating systems, PingCastle does not need any more
actions.

For Windows 2000, the dotnet framework 2.0, which is the last supported
version, need to be installed.

The two files required to run scans are PingCastle.exe and
PingCastle.exe.config

## Run the program

1.  The best way is just to double click on PingCastle.exe

![https://www.pingcastle.com/wp/wp-content/uploads/2018/09/quickstart.png](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image6.png)

This run the program in a mode called the "interactive mode.

The program can be run using a command line. A command line can be run
by searching for "cmd" or "command line" in the start menu.

Then a drag and drop of the file "PingCastle.exe" automatically
populates the command line with the binary. The same can be done with
other files ending with ".exe"

## Getting help

PingCastle can display its help on a command line.

![https://www.pingcastle.com/wp/wp-content/uploads/2018/09/cmd-pingcastle-help.png](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image7.png)

Indeed PingCastle has a lot of switches which can be displayed using the
command line:

```
PingCastle.exe --help
```

Do not forget also to check the website https://www.pingcastle.com or on
twitter \@mysmartlogon

## Generating log file for support requests

PingCastle can collect logs with the \--log switch

However when a command line argument is submitted, the interactive mode
is disabled and the module has to be launched manually. To avoid that,
the "interactive mode" can be activated manually using the command:

```
PingCastle.exe --log --interactive
```

# Performing an Active Directory health check

The report can be generated in the interactive mode by choosing
"healthcheck" or just by pressing Enter. Indeed it is the default
analysis mode.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image8.png)

It can be run using the command:

```
PingCastle --healthcheck --server mydomain.com
```

Active Directory risk level analysis

When the health check is run, an html file and an xml file are
generated. The html file represent the report of the active directory.
It is designed for humans. The xml contains some of the data used to
generate the html file and can be used to consolidate date on multiple
active directories. It is designed to be computer read (PingCastle).

2.  The xml file is required for all analysis, including global overview
    or cartography.

![https://www.pingcastle.com/wp/wp-content/uploads/2018/09/img1.png](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image9.png)

The report is divided in 3 parts:

1 -- Scores

The Score is computed by the maximum of the 4 sub scores:

- Privileged accounts -- It is about administrators.

- Trusts -- It is about the links between Active Directories (reminder:
  one AD can compromise one other via trusts).

- Stale objects -- Stale objects represent everything about the AD
  objects and their life cycle: computer and user creation, delegation.

- Security anomalies -- Everything that doesn't fit into the previous
  categories and related to security checks

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image10.png)

The details of the rules triggered is shown with some indication and the
number of points calculated (the total cannot be above 100).

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image11.png)

When the rule is clicked, a short explanation of the rule is shown with
some indication on how to solve the situation.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image12.png)

2 -- General information

- Contains the generated date, domain

3 -- Details

- The Detail zone shows general information about users, computers,
  trusts, group policies, ...

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image13.png)

Some information can be seen in detail by clicking on the associated
link. It contains data to help identify the underlying objects.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image14.png)

# Perform domain discovery

Option 1: performing multiple health check reports (recommended)

If you want to get a quick status of your infrastructure, [run the program](/docs/pingcastle/basicuser.md) with the "healthcheck" mode (just press enter) and enter as domain the asterisk (\*).

All reachable domains will be scanned, the reachable mode will be
activated and the consolidation report will be made automatically. This
takes from a few minutes to one hour.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image15.png)

Then open the cartography reports (see below).

3.  Xml reports generated from multiple point of view can be used to have a consolidated map. Do not forget to check the [Getting an overview](/docs/pingcastle/basicuser.md) or [dashboard](/docs/pingcastle/basicuser.md) section.

Option 2: when having existing health check reports

**The map can be generated in the interactive mode by choosing
"conso".** This mode performs the consolidation report and build the
maps.

![https://www.pingcastle.com/wp/wp-content/uploads/2018/09/pingcastle-consolidation-process.png](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image16.png)

Option 3: perform a quick domain exploration (fastest but not scalable)

If you need only a quick map (\< 5 minutes of execution), enter "carto"
when using the interactive mode or run the program with the switch
\--carto.

![https://www.pingcastle.com/wp/wp-content/uploads/2018/09/pingcastle-carto-process.png](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image17.png)

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image18.png)

The program discovers all the reachable domains, does a light scan and
produce the same map than in the health check consolidation mode. The
SID Filtering status is accurate but the individual scores are not
available. Scans are performed in parallel. Cartography reports cannot
be combined when run on more than one point of view. If you need to
combine data from multiple AD, you should run the healthchecking reports
and consolidate their reports.

## Maps

There are two kinds of map. The first one is the most complete but can
be difficult to read. To avoid this difficulty, a simplified most exists
where a domain is connected to others only using a single trust. It
builds a hierarchy.

When available, the Active Directory health check score is displayed and
colored by on it. Trusts are also colored based on the SID Filtering
state.

### Full domain map

The full domain map is represented by the files xxx_full_node_map.html.
Each map is a dynamic map. Each node can be moved.

Example of graph produced by the tool

![https://www.pingcastle.com/wp/wp-content/uploads/2018/09/img3.png](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image19.png)

The colored circles are the domain on which the reports have been run.
The color depends on the score. The purple bordered circles are the
domains on which the script has not been run but that they program found
using trust link.

Legend:

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image20.webp)

When the mouse is on a circle, the full name of the domain appears:

![https://www.pingcastle.com/wp/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/fullzomm.png](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image21.png)

If the mouse is hold on a trust, the detail is shown in a popup:

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image22.png)

### Simple domain map

The simple domain map is represented by the files
xxx_simple_node_map.html.

![https://www.pingcastle.com/wp/wp-content/uploads/2018/09/pingcastle-carto-simplified.png](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image23.png)

This is the same map except that a domain is present only one time in
the graph and connected with only one trust. The domain which has the
most trust is automatically selected to be at the center of the graph.
The domain at the center can be specified manually.

### Hilbert map

The simple domain map is represented by the files xxx_hilbert_map.html.

Networks are big and it can be difficult to have a visual representation
of them. This report displays what is called a Hilbert map. Indeed,
fractal functions are used to compress a 1D space (IP addresses of the
networks), into 2D for a visual representation. Each square represent a
network. It can be used to detect non occupied space or networks which
are overlapping.

This report is divided into 4 areas:

- the first one give an overview of all the networks

- the second one zoom deeper into the selected network

- the first one displays the list of networks

- the last one show the list of domain controllers identified

On the viewer Window, sources can be selected to avoid an overlapping
with two sources.

There is a mouse over popup which gives you detail about a select IP
(and the networks where it does belong) and a search function can be use
to find a specific IP address.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image24.png)

# Deploying PingCastle

PingCastle has been designed to be scalable and used in a decentralized
architecture.

To be the most effective, PingCastle needs to have the risk reports for
all domains. Because PingCastle doesn't need an account in the domain to
audit, you can take benefits of trusts to perform this task.

![https://www.pingcastle.com/wp/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/pingcastle-consolidation-process.png](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image25.png)

## Involvement of the management

The management involvement is a critical factor of success. Here is how
you can proceed.

You can start the project by running the tool without notifying the domain administrators to get a first overview. The healthcheck mode run on all trusted server (server set as "\*") or the carto mode can help [built a big picture of all domains involved](/docs/pingcastle/basicuser.md).

Then you can deploy officially in a small perimeter and use the report
results to challenge the domain administrators. Based on the risk
indicators or on the delay required to fix the problems, you can take
the opportunity to involve the management here.

Here some arguments which can help you involve the management about this
kind of project:

- Active Directory's security is crucial: the probability that an
  auditor compromise an Active Directory is about 90%

- Management has to prove to external auditors that actions are being
  made on that topic

- The tool doesn\'t need any setup, installation, server, project, ...
  Cost & effort are minimal

- The risk indicators can be used to prove that the situation has been
  improved and it can be used for benchmarking (an effective management
  method)

- The tool returns anomalies which 80% of them can be fixed within 5
  minutes

Decision to take

We recommend that the decision made by the management is about:

- Deploy the tool on 100% of the domains

  - For example set the initial deadline to 3 months and assign
    discovered trusted domain to the AD owner.

- Request the implementation of SID Filtering on 100% of the trusts
  except official migrations

  - For example set a list of critical domains and list the trusts
    linked to that domains without SID Filtering.

- Follow the progress of these actions on the management meetings.

  - For example set a monthly follow up meeting with the people
    involved.

Getting to 100%

Below is a list of reasons an entity can invoke (or remain silent) to be
excepted:

- Minority share holding company

- Migration and removal of the domain in the upcoming months

- Regulations

- "Confidential information" included in the script

To handle the migration cases, PingCastleReporting supports a
"migration" status for the domain auditing & a "migration" status for
SID Filtering. In the SID Filtering case, an end date has to be defined.
We recommend 3 to 12 months. Migration should be an excuse for removing
anomalies, not running the script (a 5 minutes effort !).

For "confidential information", the xml report doesn't include any
personal information nor administrator accounts. If the level of
information included is too high, a configuration switch exists to lower
the level of information. If the problem is about the transfer of the
data in an unsafe channel, the tool can encrypt the xml report to solve
this problem.

For other issues, we recommend to insist if there are trusts to existing
domains. Indeed, a trust facilitates the attacker job because he knows
that there is a domain via the trust information, that there can be
credentials in memory (mimikatz) or that he can absuse network
connection (LLMR spoofing with Python Responder). If you can't get a
report, we suggest to remove the trust to these domains.

Then for domains without a trust, you can formally transfer the
responsibility of the Active Directory compromise and put the domain
status to "Out Of Scope".

Deploying PingCastle in decentralized locations

PingCastle can be run on every domain of a company using the command:

```
PingCastle --healthcheck
```

Reports can then be regrouped to produce a global view. See below for
the technics (encryption, transfert by email) to centralize the reports.

## Deploying PingCastle in centralized locations

PingCastle can be run on a Bastion Active Directory, generally used to
perform administration tasks. In this case, all the domains will be
scanned.

```
PingCastle --healthcheck --server *
```

The program can be run on every forest root and be limited to that
perimeter

```
PingCastle --healthcheck --server *.forest.root
```

The tool can be run on every forest child and explore the child and its
trusted domains. In this case the forest root is excluded.

```
PingCastle --healthcheck --explore-trust --server child.forest.root
```

PingCastle can explore all the domains of all the trusted forests from
another forest. This is useful when the root and child doesn't share the
same name.

```
PingCastle --healthcheck --explore-forest-trust --server anotherforest.root
```

If needed, exceptions can be set to not scan domains. For example to not
scan the Bastion domain multiple times. In this case use the
option \--explore-exception \<domains\> where domains are comma
separated domain name.

## Updating PingCastle

Since PingCastle 2.7, a new update program is delivered. It downloads
the latest release from the github official releases. In option, it can
download the beta release or wait that the release has reached a
specific age.

Here is the options available:

```
--api-url http://xx : use an alternative url for checking for updates

--force-download : download the latest release even if it is not the
most recent. Useful for tests

--use-preview : download preview release if it is the most recent

--wait-for-days 30 : ensure the releases has been made public for at
least X days
```

## Centralizing reports

Encryption

Sometimes, domains are unconnected or it is not possible to make the
schedule tasks centralize in a single share all the reports. To deal
with this case, PingCastle can encrypt the reports to send them in an
unsafe channel.

A RSA key pair need to be generated and the public key needs to be
shared with all the instance of the program. When producing risks
reports and generating the .xml files, add the flag \--encrypt to
perform the encryption.

You can generate a keypair using the following command and copy the
public key in the .config file to be deployed.

```
PingCastle.exe --generate-key
```

Starting the task: Generate Key

Public Key (used on the encryption side):

```xml
<encryptionSettings encryptionKey="default">

<RSAKeys>

<!-- encryption key -->

<KeySettings name="default"
publicKey="<RSAKeyValue><Modulus>h

4smrLAZZ30QwWXHcT1oNz3hH3Ax2R9T75DlioGFCIdLb0QhUn3N8NWgJ2ZgyUNXn4qU1b0DslOIhK+Cq

oqCPvXuHjK6TGrMyphtcbZvvgbLxfyalJemczx1+pOuBlqqVdalE94rnnnBr761WIJJnkJdZ0rzYsebn

DwGuk9kiw8=</Modulus><Exponent>AQAB</Exponent></RSAKeyValue

>"/>

<!-- end -->

</RSAKeys>

</encryptionSettings>
```

Private Key (used on the decryption side):

```xml
<encryptionSettings encryptionKey="default">

<RSAKeys>

<!-- decryption key -->

<KeySettings name="39b5d076-17be-4999-b43e-b894a55446a1"
privateKey="<R

SAKeyValue><Modulus>h4smrLAZZ30QwWXHcT1oNz3hH3Ax2R9T75DlioGFCIdLb0QhUn3

N8NWgJ2ZgyUNXn4qU1b0DslOIhK+CqoqCPvXuHjK6TGrMyphtcbZvvgbLxfyalJemczx1+pOuBlqqVda

lE94rnnnBr761WIJJnkJdZ0rzYsebnDwGuk9kiw8=</Modulus><Exponent>AQAB<

/Exponent><P>uwgX794pe7O3vIiQR5v03WK3Ug5LUAbXpPF6Xq4qGb3TGprZaJQq5rZ2u

J4qwRanOa5pI/zv7RhG/4ItesBuAw==</P><Q>uYaNLEp9Vh8F29tSH+M4z+OjxPl+UL

LRjLrssFLTTNsdnrHgAtdJ1lxfIm/gTUa0qPLa9Y/xkUb1khK/+tV3BQ==</Q><DP>Fd

feI8+IfMACh2xTnWljca+jxVuSBCioasUhC4m/tP3sd8D5/zK+x+8rcmhWifKBWUU7Vk6mHsSlFhY4BY

wPzQ==</DP><DQ>gzfwh8AT0CLXEP6ZomYi257lST8xoUAoyEG5gKjEPJrJ42Fp0HiXB

9+Dhibc3atBwjEqvv5VXGx06iEK2g27RQ==</DQ><InverseQ>HRKFjYwrXqgO4v8Q+J

SOqR6lSvQ15Z6V4AE23i4xfeuIYWwVf0t8AwgkDfFRQnEyh24byuh5PPzUbDOsUY+eYg==</Inver

seQ><D>QQ6pIXnkt6dvw2P2toOi4eDxjQVs56oBv5rske5YzB8kNeOdmtqHXnEqzb519iQ8

incZuP1gKNevTwBu1yxkFuFh0dzjS3iBjHvYGtDo5mARiZ1nN8QNI2zKE+Q6qXF8Z+wN3Fv3oBDQXATI

6IQbgkAxLTMo4CUmtUQ6GvjwFwE=</D></RSAKeyValue>"/>

<!-- end -->

</RSAKeys>

</encryptionSettings>
```

Done

Task Generate Key completed

Then copy the private key section in the PingCastle and
PingCastleReporting configuration file (.config) used to consolidate the
results. PingCastle will perform the decryption automatically.

The program can generate an encrypted copy of a report (public key
needed) and a decrypted copy of a report (private key needed) using the
following commands:

```
PingCastle --reload-report report.xml --encrypt

PingCastle --reload-report encrypted-report.xml
```

Note: Only one key can be specified for encryption but multiple keys can
be used for decryption. Their selection is automatic.

### Email

PingCastle can contact if specified a SMTP server to send the reports by
email. If the encryption is set, the program will encrypt the reports.
Use \--sendXmlTo \<email\> to send only the xml report, \--sendHtmlTo
\<email\> to send only the html report and \--sendAllTo \<email\> to
send both html and xml report. Email addresses are comma separated ones
and the previous flags can be combined.

### API

PingCastle can send the report (encrypted or not) using an API.

![https://www.pingcastle.com/wp/wp-content/uploads/2018/09/pingcastle-swagger.png](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image26.png)

You can query a PingCastle API server or build a client or server from
[Swagger](https://editor.swagger.io/?url=https://gist.githubusercontent.com/vletoux/c6c565c8af07b4df5df65ed01ffeb917/raw/fca7a288050b7b17ba6024f2a23ef8c4d46fd813/pingcastle-swagger.json).

The description of the API in swagger format can be found
[here](https://gist.githubusercontent.com/vletoux/c6c565c8af07b4df5df65ed01ffeb917/raw/fca7a288050b7b17ba6024f2a23ef8c4d46fd813/pingcastle-swagger.json).

# Getting an overview with multiple reports

How much users or computers to you have ? Should you purchase additional
support for Windows XP or Windows 2003 ? Should you plan an
administrator cleanup ? Are the requirement for a 8 characters password
enforced ?

This is the kind of questions you can answer with the simplest
consolidation. Indeed, the program can be used to aggregate the report
results.

Operations to perform

The consolidation process is working on the xml files generated by the
consolidation report. By default, the files are picked in the directory
(or sub directory) where the program is run. If there are duplicate
reports, only the most recent is used.

![https://www.pingcastle.com/wp/wp-content/uploads/2018/09/pingcastle-consolidation-process.png](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image16.png)

To generate the report, enter "conso" in the interactive mode.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image27.png)

Or type the following command line:

```
PingCastle --hc-conso
```

4.  This report is generated automatically when the healthcheck is
    performed with the server "\*"

Consolidation report

The consolidation report is a concatenation of all data contained in the
report, without the detail. It follows the same plan than a simple
report.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image28.png)

When the consolidation is made, 3 html files are generated.

File ad_hc_summary.html

The first one contains the summary of all the reports: It keeps the same
structure than the detailed reports but with a higher level of detail.

[Example](https://www.pingcastle.com/PingCastleFiles/ad_hc_summary.html)

- ad_hc_summary_full_node_map.html

The second file is a map build on all trusts. See [domain discovery](/docs/pingcastle/basicuser.md).

[Example](https://www.pingcastle.com/PingCastleFiles/ad_hc_summary_full_node_map.html)

- ad_hc_summary_simple_node_map.html

The third file is a map build on all trusts. See [domain discovery](/docs/pingcastle/basicuser.md).

[Example](https://www.pingcastle.com/PingCastleFiles/ad_hc_summary_simple_node_map.html)

# Scanners

PingCastle has some builtin program to check for specific features.
These programs are called \"scanners\" and are accessible from the
\"scanner\" item on the main menu.

When selected, a menu is displayed to select the program. At the bottom,
a scanner description is shown.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image29.png)

Here are the main scanners

Check for specific user in global permissions

The AclCheck scanner is used to hunt for write permission given to
objects on a domain. It is default to the \"authenticated users\",
\"domain users\", \"everyone\" groups.

```
PingCastle --scanner aclcheck --server <domainToExplore>
```

Local administrators

The local administrator accounts can be used in an attack to recover
passwords in memory with tools like mimikatz. You can enumerate most of
them without any privilege with PingCastle with the following command:

```
PingCastle --scanner localadmin --server <domainToExplore>
```

Local shares

Local shares can be opened to everyone and be storing confidential
information like login and passwords or backups. PingCastle can do a
quick scan without any privilege and locate open share using the
following command:

```
PingCastle --scanner share --server <domainToExplore>
```

Start time

Any authenticated users can get the start time of a computer in the
domain and even unauthenticated ones if SMB v2 is activated. PingCastle
can do a quick scan without any privilege and gather the start time of
all computers of the domain:

```
PingCastle --scanner startup --server <domainToExplore>
```

SMB version

PingCastle can do a quick scan without any privilege to know which
version is supported as server for each computer of a domain:

```
PingCastle --scanner smb --server <domainToExplore>
```

Null sessions

Null sessions are an old Windows NT4 problem. It should have been
disappears but is still present on 20-30% of the domains. When it is
enabled, an auditor with no account on the domain can use this to
enumerate all the account of the domain. Then this list can be used to
generated wrong authentication attempts and lock the accounts. Or
perform brute-force attacks.

You can use PingCastle to attempt to extract a list of user account
using this functionality. Run the following command:

```
PingCastle --scanner nullsession --server <servertotest>
```

foreignusers

A inbound trust ( an unidirectional trust) is understood as a diode.
Nothing is supposed to be extracted. But this is not true. PingCastle
can extract the list of users from an inbound trust via a MS-LSAT
enumeration.

First, enter the domain to enumerate (eg: the bastion or a domain which
is very far)

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image30.png)

Then enter the domain which will be used as a pivot

```
PingCastle --scanner foreignusers --foreigndomain <remote domain or sid> --server <pivot domain>
```

# Annex

Command line reference

Here is a short description of the main tasks performed by the program.

Health check

run the health check :

```
PingCastle --healthcheck --server mydomain.com
```

run the consolidation of the health check reports:

```
PingCastle --hc-conso
```

Next, export rule list:

```
PingCastle --export-hc-rule
```

Overview:

Run the report on all reachable domains and built a cartography:

```
PingCastle --healthcheck --server * --reachable --hc-conso
```

Built only a cartography without scores:

```
PingCastle --carto
```

Advanced mode:

run the export:

```
PingCastle --advanced-export --server mydomain.com
```

build the reports:

```
PingCastle --advanced-report --database thegeneratedsdffile.sdf
```

Other investigations:

Check the presence of null session:

```
PingCasle --nullsession --server servertotest
```

Scan the domains for local administrators:

```
PingCastle --localadmins --server domainToExplore
```

Scan the presence of local shares:

```
PingCastle --shares --server domainToExplore
```

The available switches can be obtained using the "\--help" switch.

```
PingCastle --help
```

## Full command line options

switch:

```
--help : display this message

--interactive : force the interactive mode

--log : generate a log file

--log-console : add log to the console
```

Common options when connecting to the AD

```
--server <server> : use this server (default: current domain
controller)

the special value * or *.forest do the healthcheck for all domains

--port <port> : the port to use for ADWS or LDPA (default: 9389 or
389)

--user <user> : use this user (default: integrated authentication)

--password <pass> : use this password (default: asked on a secure
prompt)

--protocol <proto> : selection the protocol to use among LDAP or ADWS
(fastest)

: ADWSThenLDAP (default), ADWSOnly, LDAPOnly, LDAPThenADWS

--carto : perform a quick cartography with domains surrounding

--healthcheck : perform the healthcheck (step1)

--api-endpoint <> : upload report via api call eg: http://server

--api-key <key> : and using the api key as registered

--explore-trust : on domains of a forest, after the healthcheck, do the
hc on all trusted domains except domains of the forest and forest trusts

--explore-forest-trust : on root domain of a forest, after the
healthcheck, do the hc on all forest trusts discovered

--explore-trust and --explore-forest-trust can be run together

--explore-exception <domains> : comma separated values of domains
that will not be explored automatically

--encrypt : use an RSA key stored in the .config file to crypt the
content of the xml report

--level <level> : specify the amount of data found in the xml file

: level: Full, Normal, Light

--no-enum-limit : remove the max 100 users limitation in html report

--reachable : add reachable domains to the list of discovered domains

--sendXmlTo <emails>: send xml reports to a mailbox (comma separated
email)

--sendHtmlTo <emails>: send html reports to a mailbox

--sendAllTo <emails>: send html reports to a mailbox

--notifyMail <emails>: add email notification when the mail is
received

--smtplogin <user>: allow smtp credentials ...

--smtppass <pass> : ... to be entered on the command line

--smtptls : enable TLS/SSL in SMTP if used on other port than 465 and
587

--skip-null-session: do not test for null session

--webdirectory <dir>: upload the xml report to a webdav server

--webuser <user> : optional user and password

--webpassword <password>

--rules : Generate an html containing all the rules used by PingCastle.
Do not forget PingCastleReporting includes a similar option but for
.xslx

--generate-key : generate and display a new RSA key for encryption

--hc-conso : consolidate multiple healthcheck xml reports (step2)

--center-on <domain> : center the simplified graph on this domain

default is the domain with the most links

--xmls <path> : specify the path containing xml (default: current
directory)

--filter-date <date>: filter report generated after the date.

--regen-report <xml> : regenerate a html report based on a xml report

--reload-report <xml> : regenerate a xml report based on a xml report

any healthcheck switches (send email, ..) can be reused

--level <level> : specify the amount of data found in the xml file

: level: Full, Normal, Light (default: Normal)

--encrypt : use an RSA key stored in the .config file to crypt the
content of the xml report

the absence of this switch on an encrypted report will produce a
decrypted report

--graph : perform the light compromise graph computation directly to
the AD

--encrypt : use an RSA key stored in the .config file to crypt the
content of the xml report

--max-depth : maximum number of relation to explore (default:30)

--max-nodes : maximum number of node to include (default:1000)

--node <node> : create a report based on a object

: example: "cn=name" or "name"

--nodes <file> : create x report based on the nodes listed on a file

--scanner <type> : perform a scan on one of all computers of the
domain (using --server)

aclcheck

Check authorization related to users or groups. Default to everyone,
authenticated users and domain users

antivirus

Check for computers without known antivirus installed. It is used to
detect unprotected computers but may also report computers with unknown
antivirus.

corruptADDatabase

Try to detect corrupted AD database. To run only when requested by
PingCastle support.

foreignusers

Use trusts to enumerate users located in domain denied such as bastion
or domains too far away.

laps_bitlocker

Check on the AD if LAPS and/or BitLocker has been enabled for all
computers on the domain.

localadmin

Enumerate the local administrators of a computer.

nullsession

Check if null sessions are enabled and provide example(s).

nullsession-trust

Dump the trusts of a domain via null session if possible

share

List all shares published on a computer and determine if the share can
be accessed by anyone

smb

Scan a computer and determine the smb version available. Also if SMB
signing is active.

spooler

Check if the spooler service is remotely active. The spooler can be
abused to get computer tokens when unconstrained delegations are
exploited.

startup

Get the last startup date of a computer. Can be used to determine if
latest patches have been applied.

options for scanners:

--scmode-single : force scanner to check one single computer

--nslimit <number>: Limit the number of users to enumerate (default:
5)

--foreigndomain <sid> : foreign domain targeted using its FQDN or
sids

Example of SID: S-1-5-21-4005144719-3948538632-2546531719

--upload-all-reports: use the API to upload all reports in the current
directory

--api-endpoint <> : upload report via api call eg: http://server

--api-key <key> : and using the api key as registered

Note: do not forget to set --level Full to send all the information
available
```

## List of open source software used

PingCastle uses a set of open source components to perform its job.

The list of components used by PingCastle, but not limited to, is:

- [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/) licensed under the [MIT
  license](https://tldrlegal.com/license/mit-license)

- [DataTables](https://datatables.net/) licensed under the [MIT
  license](https://tldrlegal.com/license/mit-license)

- [Popper.js](https://popper.js.org/) licensed under the [MIT
  license](https://tldrlegal.com/license/mit-license)

- [JQuery](https://jquery.org) licensed under the [MIT
  license](https://tldrlegal.com/license/mit-license)

- [vis.js](http://visjs.org/) licensed under the [MIT
  license](https://tldrlegal.com/license/mit-license)

## Scheduling PingCastle report

The program is compatible with the \"managed service account\" available
since Windows 2008 R2 and if the scheduled task is run on Windows 2012.

Important setting: check \"run whether user is logged on or not\" and
choose a service account running under the domain (not a local account).
Check hidden to hide the console.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image31.png)

Set the schedule:

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image32.png)

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image33.png)

Set the command line:

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image34.png)

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image35.png)

Be sure that the service account has the right to write the report in
the current directory.

If you get the following message, be sure that the user as the right to
logon as batch job.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image36.png)

This can be modified in the security policies:

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image37.png)

Select \"Local Policies\" in MSC snap in

Select \"User Rights Assignment\"

Right click on \"Log on as batch job\" and select Properties

Click \"Add User or Group\", and include the relevant user.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/basicuser/image38.png)

If the button \"Add User or Group\" is grayed, that means that the
setting is overridden by a GPO (by default, the Domain Controller
Policy). You can find the GPO by running rsop.msc, locate the setting
and look at the \"Policy\" sheet.
