# PingCastle Enterprise User Manual

## Description

PingCastle Enterprise is a tool designed to improve and follow the
Active Directory overall security level. This software has been
developed to be compatible with most of the possible existing
configurations. The goal (when the tool was created) was not to aim for
perfection, but to provide reliable data to present the situation to the
management, thus improving over time.

# PingCastle built-in security

PingCastle Enterprise is a tool dedicated to improve the AD security, so
security has been a major priority alongside every step of the creation
and improvement.

First, the application has been designed in a framework where most
common attacks such as XSS or SQL Injection are prohibited by design.

Because such protections can be sometimes avoided, the application has
an additional layer of protection with all known HTTP security headers
and including the header \"Content Security Policy\" in strict mode.
That means that all the JavaScript code of the application is stored in
separate files and that JavaScript included in the page via injection
will not run in the browser. This protection can be checked via third
party service such as \"security headers\". It means that
\"unsafe-inline\" and \"unsafe-eval\" are not accepted.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image2.png)

The application uses enforced controls which force parameters to be
checked twice against a model (in the browser then in the server
application) and all queries to the database are parameterized. There is
no SQL string built by the application.

Then each access to the database is verified by a filter which controls
the data to be queried before a database query is sent. This code is
tested by unit tests to lower the risk of a misconception in the filter.

The application is based mainly on the following frameworks:

- asp.net core 3.1

- bootstrap 4

- jQuery 3

- vis.js

- chart.js

The up-to-date list of explicit components can be seen in the about page
of the application.

# Authentication and user management

PingCastle Enterprise provides by default two mechanisms for
authentication: classic login password and external authentication. The
external authentication allows to use widely supported providers such as
Azure AD, Google, or professional web SSO such as Okta.

These methods can be used separately or in coordination, meaning you can
either use a Dual-Factor authentication (recommended) or a single factor
authentication.

If the password authentication must be disabled, the setting
\"disablePasswordLogin\" should be set to on. OpenID is automatically
enabled if the OpenID section is completed in the \"appsettings.json\"
file.

Authentication using OpenID:

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image3.png)

Authentication using login/password:

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image4.png)

Note: When the login / password method is configured (by default), a
password recovery mechanism by email and a two-factor authentication
method are provided.

## Authorization

Ping Castle allows to setup permissions on Entities, or objects (Domains
or AzureAD)

The permissions can be set on the detail of the Entities

![Une image contenant texte, capture d'écran, logiciel, Page web Description générée automatiquement](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image5.png)

And on the Domain / AzureAD objects

![Une image contenant texte, capture d'écran, logiciel, Page web Description générée automatiquement](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image6.png)

The permissions are of 2 types:

- the classic user assignment where users are assigned to objects.

![Une image contenant texte, capture d'écran, Police, nombre Description générée automatiquement](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image7.png)

- using claims permissions

In this case, the user rights are managed dynamically based on the
claims submitted by the authentication application (Windows, OpenID,
Saml2, ...)

![Une image contenant texte, capture d'écran, Police, nombre Description générée automatiquement](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image8.png)

Claims permission is the way to assign dynamically permissions based on
Windows group. Be advised that the claims are case sensitive. You can
also open the "View my user's claims page in "Manage your account" to
see what claims have been pushed to Ping Castle.

![Une image contenant texte, capture d'écran, Police, conception Description générée automatiquement](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image9.png)

# Ping Castle Enterprise features

Main pages overview

The application is divided is 4 different areas:

- The management view

- The technical view

- The configuration

- The account / user management

![A logo with a triangle and dots Description automatically
generated](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image10.png)![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image11.png)

Configuration

Account / User management

Technical view

Management view

Each view is dedicated to a certain kind of audience, which is defined
by the role each stakeholder has.

## Role-Based Access and Permission Structure

The PingCastle Enterprise solution uses a structured permission model
based on roles, entities, and domains to control access to data and
administrative features.

### User Roles and Views

The solution defines several user roles, each with specific access
rights:

- Active Directory (AD) Administrators should typically only access the
  Technical view (\"Infrastructure\")

- Organizational Management may access both the Management and Technical
  views (\"Dashboard\" and \"Infrastructure\")

- The PingCastle Enterprise Main Administrator has full access,
  including:

  - Configuration View -- Used for advanced customization of the
    solution

  - Account / User Management View -- Used to manage user roles and
    permissions

1.  All users can access their personal account settings. In addition,
    internal users can reset their password if password-based
    authentication is enabled.

### Permission Levels

The product implements three main layers of permission:

- Roles -- Used to assign specific administrative capabilities. The
  \"Admin\" role grants full access to all system data and features.

- Entities -- Group multiple domains and are the only way to delegate
  access to the Dashboard. Assigning a user to an entity grants access
  to:

  - All domains within that entity

  - The dashboard and associated management views

- Domains -- Represent the lowest level of access. A user with
  domain-level access can only view reports for that specific domain.
  They do not have access to other domains or to the dashboard unless
  assigned through an entity or elevated role.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image12.png)

## Page organization

All the pages of the PingCastle Enterprise solution has been designed in
order to be as clear as possible. It means that, when it is possible,
the pages follow the same kind of architecture, enabling the users to
quickly get used to the solution in general.

For instance, most pages can show \"All data\" available to the user or
set up a filter to only see a more narrowed down set of data.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image13.png)

When a user does not have access to the root of the organization and
have access to multiple area of the organization, the application
display by default the first organization that the user can access.

Following the same idea, most pages from the \"Maturity Assessment\"
section are built in a common structure, allowing to visualize KPI
efficiently

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image14.png)

The main page contains the Indicators, while you can then have a
breakdown of these KPI regarding the Entities, and a History of how the
said KPI evolves since you first started monitoring them.

# Management view (\"Dashboards\")

The dashboard view is divided in two areas: The "Maturity Assessment"
and the "Advanced views".

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image15.png)

From this global page, you can then access detailed process for each
step of the PingCastle maturity assessment (Domain Coverage, Ownership,
etc.) while more detailed pages can be shown in the advanced menu.

This view is mainly dedicated for the company management, notably the
\"Maturity Assessment\" part, as it will show KPI as well as Objectives
and goals in order to improve the overall level of security of the AD.

Nonetheless, it can also be used by Technical stakeholder such as AD
administrator, as it can greatly assist in the technical remediation.
Indeed, a lot of detailed analysis can be performed through the
\"Advanced\" section.

## Maturity Assessment

Global view

The \"Maturity Assessment\" is based on a maturity evaluation divided in
several steps. To summarize, it consists 5 main areas, each containing 4
major measures, giving a total of 20 measures.

Each measure for which the company AD is compliant gives 1 point in the
total, ending in a score on 20 that can be viewed in a radar chart.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image16.png)

To go into more details, this score is computed on the 2 first levels of
the CMMI methodology applied to the AD:

Initial

- Domain Coverage - ensure all domains have been reviewed

- Ownership - ensure all domains have an owner and that this owner is
  doing its job

- External Trusts - ensure all domains are not connected to external
  companies

Repeatable

- Internal trusts - ensure that the risk of cross domain contamination
  is limited

- Risk score - ensure that the local risk of contamination is limited

2.  Each of the measure have its own detailed page, in which you can
    find more information on how to improve the situation, and how to
    gain the associated \"star\".

A star is an indicator telling whether a single rule linked to a measure
is raising an alert or not.

Detailed view of the maturity score:

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image17.png)

Detailed view of the breakdown for a major area:

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image18.png)

3.  The purpose of these general pages is to assist users understand
    more fully the current level of protection of the company Active
    Directory.

It can be used to have an idea of the work performed as well as the work
remaining to be done regarding the AD securing.

Then a button \"Click here to get more details\" is available to switch
to a more detailed dashboard.

## Area maturity dashboard

This section covers the following pages:

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image19.png)

4.  The purpose of these general pages is to assist users understand
    more fully the current level of protection of the company Active
    Directory.

It can be used to have an idea of the work performed as well as the work
remaining to be done regarding the AD securing.

Detailed view per area

Each area has its dedicated page, with a lot of information regarding
what is being well done and what can be improved.

The first section of the page always shows a global explanation of the
objective of the area.

Then, it displays a few KPI which are composing the maturity evaluation.
If the objective is reached, the KPI is in green color, else its color
is red. A \"Detail\" button allows to directly reach the technical view,
with extra advanced information on how to remediate and improve the KPI.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image20.png)

5.  The second section offers different kind of detailed information in
    different tabs.

This information can be a couple of indicators that help understand a
bit more the situation, a breakdown of the information shown by entity
within the selected perimeter, or an history graph representing how the
KPI evolved in the past.

Each chart is dynamic, and a category can be filtered out by clicking on
it in the legend.

Moreover, a click on certain data can forward you directly to the page
containing the data that were used to elaborate the chart.

Indicators for the related tab:

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image21.png)

Entities Details for the related tab:

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image22.png)

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image23.png)

Entities Details for the related tab:

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image24.png)

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image25.png)

## Remediation / Rule Matrix

The \"Rule Matrix\" view represents a feature that aggregates every rule
used in the 4 categories to calculate the Global Risk score. Through
that feature, you can efficiently identify what are the main points of
failure within your Active Directory, and then put in place the
associated remediation plan.

It takes the form of a double entry table, with on one side all the
domains within your perimeter, and on the other side all the rules and
if they are OK or not. It can be filtered to only show relevant
information (a.k.a. what affects your security negatively), and it can
also be download in CSV format.

This dashboard is used to setup a taskforce and a remediation project.

The first view is a matrix where there are all the rules in columns and
all the domain in lines.

It should be noticed that global problems will be reflected as a
vertical line (it impacts a rule) and local problems will be reflected
as a horizontal line (it impacts a domain).

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image26.png)

PingCastle recommends working on a unit consisting of 10 to 15 domains.
Once the selection is done, PingCastle recommends ordering the items by
Maturity levels and to remove the bank items.

![Une image contenant texte Description générée automatiquement](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image27.png)

The result is then a 15 to 20 matrix where all colored items are a rule
which matched.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image28.png)

The detail can be viewed by pointing on the cell and a click forwards
the user to the detail of the report.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image29.png)

Please note that the "View Action Plans" option changes the color of the
items and enable the user to see quickly what the status of the action
plan are. Typically, the first step of a remediation will be to request
domain owners to setup an action plan without enforcing it.

To see the top rules that need to be fixed to improve the maturity or
the score, a selection of the 2 tab "Maturity" or "Priority" enables the
user to see the data.

![Une image contenant texte Description générée automatiquement](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image30.png)

## Remediation / Maturity per domain

This view allows the user to compare the number of rules per domain in a
select entity.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image31.png)

## Advanced

The \"Advanced\" part of the Dashboard is composed of a multiple of
extra utilities that can assist you in understanding your current level
of AD security as well as how to improve it

It consists of the following pages:

Report Analysis

Consolidation of all the possible reports that PingCastle Enterprise can
generate with the information it has in the selected perimeter. There
are a lot of features enabling the user to filter data if needed.
Additional reports may be added in the future or if requested.

Staled Objects

The \"Staled Objects\" are one of the 4 main components of the Risk
Score (the 2.2 area)

This section will give a lot of details on how the Stale Objects
influence your overall Risk Score, as well as guidelines on how to
reduce the risk and improve the overall Risk Score.

Privileged accounts

The \"Privileged accounts\" are one of the 4 main components of the Risk
Score (the 2.2 area)

This section will give a lot of details on how the Stale Objects
influence your overall Risk Score, as well as guidelines on how to
reduce the risk and improve the overall Risk Score.

Trusts

The \"Trusts\" are one of the 4 main components of the Risk Score (the
2.2 area)

This section will give a lot of details on how the Stale Objects
influence your overall Risk Score, as well as guidelines on how to
reduce the risk and improve the overall Risk Score.

Anomalies

The \"Anomalies\" are one of the 4 main components of the Risk Score
(the 2.2 area)

This section will give a lot of details on how the Stale Objects
influence your overall Risk Score, as well as guidelines on how to
reduce the risk and improve the overall Risk Score.

# Technical view (\"Infrastructure\")

The technical view also named \"Infrastructure\" is based on a list of
domains and its data.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image32.png)

The list of domains is shown in the \"Domains\" page and a \"Forests\"
page exists where only forests containing more than 2 domains are
listed.

Then cartography pages are used to explore the topology of the area
monitored.

6.  Pages with more detailed analysis such as domain events or analytics
    can show data from cross domain to investigate specific questions.

## Domains

List of domains

The objective of this page is to display the list of all the domains in
the perimeter. This list can be filtered based on parameter to switch
between the management view and the technical view. This filter can be
customized by clicking on \"Advanced Filter\". The \"Search\" function
can be used to dynamically filter domains based on name, SID or Entity.

Furthermore, by default, Domains with status Removed or Out of scope are
filtered by default.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image33.png)

A click on the domain open the domain view and a click on the entity
full name open the management view for the entity.

Detail information on a domain

This view displays detailed information on the domain, as well as many
other information such the results of the last report, some history,
timeline and cartography. This can be modified by selecting a tab.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image34.png)

Last report tab:

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image35.png)

The full detail of the last report performed is accessible in this tab,
though it is not shown here.

By default when there is a list of users, the output is limited to 100
users.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image36.png)

This limitation has been introduced to not have large html page and
block the navigation.

The recommended solution to overcome this limit is to use the local
PingCastle client and to export the list of accounts needed for detailed
analysis.

![Une image contenant texte, capture d'écran, écran, argent Description générée automatiquement](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image37.png)

This export produces a csv file with the user or computer name and many
properties such as the creation date or operating system as seen by
PingCastle.

The other alternative is to set the setting MaxNumberUsersInHtmlReport
at the root of the appsettings.Production.json file to any other value
(default to 100)

History tab:

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image38.png)

Timeline tab:

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image39.png)

Cartography tab:

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image40.png)

Creation and suppression of a domain

There are two ways to create a Domain in PingCastle Enterprise:

- Automatic creation is performed when a report is imported within the
  solution. Its status is then automatically set on \"Auto-Created\",
  which is something that needs to be changed manually (see the
  \"Status\" chapter for more details)

- Manual creation of a domain, when you want to import a report for this
  domain for instance. It is done by clicking on the related button.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image41.png)

It brings the user on a page with information that needs to be filled :

- Domain FQDN(\*): Name of the domain. If you want to import related to
  this domain, it is best to set the same name so the information will
  be updated automatically

- Domain SID: Only used to differentiate rare cases where two domains
  have the same FQDN. Status: Status of the domain, that need to be
  modified by the user when needed. See next chapter for full
  explanation

- Entity: Entity to which the created domains belongs. Assigning
  entities to domains can greatly help managing very large forest of AD,
  especially when there are multiple actors dedicated to specific
  entities

- Comment: Possible comment to have more information on the domain

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image42.png)

A domain cannot be hard-deleted (unless it has been added manually by
mistake, meaning that it is in no way connected to any other existing
domain or report). Though, it is possible to soft delete a domain by
changing its status.

Status of a domain

The status of the domain is managed using a basic lifecycle, as shown in
the graph below.

The default status is \"Auto Created\", and every change must be done
manually when required.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image43.png)

- Auto Created: The domain has been created automatically by the
  PingCastle Enterprise solution, which means it is connected to another
  domain which you are monitoring. It is mandatory that you act on this
  domain status, as the \"Auto Created\" status should not remain.

- Active: Normal status of a domain when it is monitored by the
  PingCastle Enterprise solution

- Derogation: Special status used to identify domains that will be
  ignored in the statistics and score calculation. This should be use
  cautiously and only in very specific cases, such as when a domain is
  being deleted or during a migration.

- Removed: Status used to simulate a hard-deletion. This status should
  be set when the domain no longer exists within your AD.

- Out of Scope: Status used to simulate a hard-deletion. This status
  should be set when the domain is no actually belonging to your
  organization and should not be followed by your company.

## Forest

A Forest is a set of domains, containing a root and child domains. When
a child domain is discovered, the root domain is set as a root of a
forest and is displayed in the Domains -\> Forests. A list of forest
discovered is displayed and a special view is available.

7.  This area allows you to have a clearer idea of how the domains are
    interconnected with each other.

## Cartography

Navigation

Each cartography can be used to navigate between domain. A mouse over on
a domain displays a tooltip containing many information regarding the
domain like its score or its entity. A double click opens the domain if
the user is authorized to access to it.

The cartography is domain relative, which means that one cartography is
created for each report. Doing so, PingCastle Enterprise can display the
list of all the domains that a specific domain can see.

Methodology used to build the maps

PingCastle is using the data included in the report from the most
reliable source to the less reliable source, in the following order:

1.  The most reliable source is domain where the report has been
    generated.

2.  The tool is using direct [trust
    data](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc223765.aspx).

3.  The tool is using forest trust information. This information is
    located in
    the [msDS-TrustForestTrustInfo](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc223786.aspx) attribute
    of a forest trust and in the [partition
    element](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc961591.aspx) of
    the configuration binding context.

4.  The tool is using the information provided by the [domain locator
    service](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc961830.aspx) when
    examining trusts. This information can add the Netbios name or the
    forest name of a trusted domain.

5.  If the "reachable" option has been set when producing a report, the
    tool is using domain SID found (in [foreign security
    principals](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc223700.aspx) or [sid
    history](<https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms679833(v=vs.85).aspx>))
    to query the [domain locator
    service](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc961830.aspx) and
    guess forest trusts.

Detailed Cartography

A general cartography is available. It displays all the domains and its
trust relationship that the user can see in its scope.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image44.png)

Simplified Cartography

Because the general cartography can be difficult to read, a simplified
view exists. The program identifies by default the domain with the most
trust relationships and put it at the center. Then it proceeds by radius
by selecting its direct neighbors.

Therefore, only domains connected directly through one trust to the main
domain are shown.

## Domain events

This page allows to query any events which occurred on one or more
domain and to filter then by type.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image45.png)

The events that you can view are the following:

Domain event:

There has been a change on a domain within a specific perimeter in the
PingCastle Enterprise solution. It can be a domain that has been added
by a user, a domain that has been discovered after importing a report, a
status change, etc.

Risk event:

There has been a change in the risks followed by the PingCastle
Enterprise solution. It either means that a new risk has been discovered
and that it should be followed by the user, or that a risk has been
cleared and that the overall level of security improved. It can also
mean that a risk is set on an exception status.

Trust event:

There has been a change in the trust between several domains monitored.
It implies that a new trust between two domains has been established,
that an existing trust between two domains has been deleted, or even
that an existing trust has been modified.

Technical event:

There has been a significant technical change modifying the global level
of security, but which is not yet covered by the existing rules. This is
a very rare event and it is not likely that you have this kind of event.

# Tool configuration (\"Configuration\")

The \"Configuration\" view of the PingCastle Enterprise application
allows the user to set up all the tool in order to be able to use it
completely. It is also in this view that the user will be able to
personalize settings so that the tool fits more the Company needs.

## Entities

In the \"Entities\" page, it is possible to create and configurate the
entities within the company.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image46.png)

It is through entities that it is possible to best represent the company
organization, so that the AD configuration matches the company
configuration.

8.  It is also through entities that it is possible to identify
    administrator for specific perimeter, meaning that these
    administrators will be operating on defined domains.

Add new entity

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image47.png)

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image48.png)

Reorganize the tree view of entities

The PingCastle Enterprise solution proposes an ergonomic view to
reorganize the various entities that may compose your Company. This view
works through drag and drop to optimize user experience.

Example to show how to reorganize entities:

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image49.png)

Details of an Entity

Each entity has a dedicated \"Details\" page that contains information.
It is on this page that you can have access to all the information of
the Entity, including the Owner permissions. It is also here that you
can edit these rights, in order to establish which key people will be
accountable for a specified entity.

For instance, the page for PingCastle Enterprise entity:

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image50.png)

## Action plans management

This part enables administrator to configure remediation schedule so it
can be displayed into reports.

![Une image contenant texte Description générée
automatiquement](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image51.png)

It is actionable directly in the domain details where the rules are
being displayed:

![Une image contenant texte Description générée
automatiquement](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image52.png)

Please pay attention to the next chart. It represents the evolution of
the number of rules per maturity level. Because an action plan has been
defined, a vertifical line represents today. Everything at the right is
the projected evolution of the maturity level based on the action items.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image53.png)

Exceptions management

This part enables administrator to configure PingCastle Enterprise so
that it adapts to the company specific context. It is indeed possible to
configure how PingCastle Enterprise handles exceptions specific to your
perimeter.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image54.png)

Rule exceptions

\"Rule exceptions\" can be set in order to completely disable a rule
within a specific domain. It means that this rule will not be applied
for a certain period, that you have to specify.

1.  This should be use only when for very specific reasons, such as when
    a rule does not apply in your organization.

Do not hesitate to contact the PingCastle editors if you have doubts or
require extra assistance regarding how the exceptions are managed.

As a precision: if no start date and no end date is defined, the
exception is applied for all reports. If a start date is defined but no
end date, the exception is applied starting the start date. Same for the
opposite case. When both start and end date are defined, the exception
is applied only during a limited moment.

Migration

In the same idea you can set exceptions for specific domain, you can
inform it in the application when one of your domains is migrating. It
will automatically put in place a set of exceptions during the timetable
the migration is happening.

Bulk actions

If many exceptions needs to be created or removed, there is an option
available to create or remove exceptions in bulk. Please note that if an
exception already exists, it will not be created again.

![Une image contenant texte Description générée automatiquement](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image55.png)

Note: Since PingCastle 2.11, all exceptions, migration or action plans
are tracked with their creation or last modification date and the user
which performed this change.

![Une image contenant texte Description générée automatiquement](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image56.png)

## Importing data

PingCastle Enterprise is tool that will allow the administrators to
easily and efficiently consult all the data from reports, as well as
take decisions and such.

9.  Therefore, it is not yet possible to launch scans and so directly
    from the application, so it is required to launch the PingCastle
    tool in standalone mode and to then import the report that are
    produced that way.

There are two way for doing so:

Option 1: Importing the file manually

From the \"Configuration\" tab, open \"Import one or more report(s).
Once you are on the page, you can simply drag and drop any file produced
by the PingCastle standalone executable and it will upload in the
PingCastle Enterprise solution.

Once it is down, the file will be marked with either a success or a
failure.

In case of a failure, a mouse over can display the associated error
message to help you in the process of uploading the file.

Import page:

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image57.png)

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image58.png)

Option 2: Importing the file automatically through the Agent mode

From the \"Configuration\" tab, you first need to get an API key using
the \"Agents\" page and configurate the PingCastle agent accordingly.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image59.png)

The first step is to create an Agent API key. Click on the create button
to reach the creation page.

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image60.png)

To map the agent to a responsible, the Owner field must be completed. It
can be an entity or a domain, such as the \"default\" entity.

The API key is generated automatically but can be changed if the
complexity requirements are met.

Once this is set up correctly, it is possible to directly upload reports
automatically using the command:

```bash
pingcastle --healthcheck --api-endpoint <endpoint> --api-key <key>
```

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image61.png)

10. By default, all detailed information will be filtered. To avoid this
    behavior, the command line can to be changed to:

```bash
pingcastle --healthcheck --api-endpoint <endpoint> --api-key <key> --level Full
```

The API can be browsed using the link found in the agent page:

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image62.png)

## Scheduler

The scheduler feature enables the application admin to schedule scans.

It relies on the Windows Task Scheduler and thus is not available on
other operating systems than Windows. It requires a post installation
step (see the installation documentation) to use it.

![Une image contenant texte Description générée automatiquement](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image63.png)

To create a new scheduled scan, click on Create and the fill the
information required.

![Une image contenant texte Description générée automatiquement](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image64.png)

Once created (if the permission was not granted, an error will be shown
with the required steps to fix this problem), the detail of the
scheduler is shown.

This page show the command that will be executed and the logs produced
for the last execution. The user has also the possibility to start or
stop the scheduled task on demand.

![Une image contenant texte Description générée automatiquement](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image65.png)

## Reports

It is possible to view all the reports that have been imported within
PingCastle Enterprise, regardless of the method used to import them.

To do so, from the \"Configuration\" tab, you can click on the \"View
all reports\" to reach the page:

![](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image66.png)

# Manage Accounts

In this section, you will be introduced to how to manage your own
account as well as how administrators can manage other accounts.

## Manage My Account

The Manage My Account menu opens the Manage Your Account window. This
window serves as a centralized hub for managing your user profile,
security settings, notifications, and account information.

Follow the instructions to access the Manage My Account window.

1.  Log in to your account.

2.  Click on your profile icon located in the top-right corner of the
    application.

3.  Select **Manage My Account** from the drop-down menu. This opens the
    Manage Your Account Window.

![A screenshot of the "Manage My Account"
button](/img/product_docs/pingcastle/enterpriseuser/image67.png)

### Navigation

The Manage Your Account window has the following functions and key
features:

Profile Manage basic View username, Update All users
account email, Update phone number
information

Notifications Control Toggle Domain/Entra ID All users
notification reports, Toggle Entity KPI
delivery notifications, View email  
 previews

Authorizations View access See Domain authorizations, All users
permissions See Entity authorizations,
Understand direct  
 permissions

Password Change account Self-service password Internal users
password reset, Password complexity only
requirements

Two-factor Add enhanced Setup with authenticator Internal users
Authentication security app, Recovery codes, only
Device management

View My User Debug See all account claims, All users
Claims authentication Understand permission  
 sources, Troubleshoot  
 access issues

View My Sessions Monitor account View all active sessions, All users
access End suspicious sessions,  
 Session management
