# History Rule

The History rule rejects passwords that are identical to recently used passwords. Password reuse
should be avoided because it defeats the purpose of regular password changes. Password Policy
Enforcer can stop users from reusing passwords for a specified number of password changes or a
number of days.

![History rule](/img/product_docs/passwordpolicyenforcer/11.0/administration/history.webp)

Select the **History** check box to enable the History rule.

Select one of the options:

**One of the last** option to stop passwords from being reused for a specified number of password
changes. Choose the number of password changes from the drop-down list.

**A password used in the last** option to stop passwords from being reused for a specified number of
days. Type the number of days in the text box.

Choose an item from the **Hash function** drop-down list. Argon2 is recommended for best security.
The Argon2 option uses 100,000 times more computing power to create a hash, so an attacker needs
100,000 more computing power to crack Argon2 hashes. Argon2 increases password change times by 400%,
so a domain controller that can handle 1,000 password changes a minute with SHA-256 can be expected
to handle 250 password changes a minute with Argon2. All numbers are approximate. Use Argon2 if your
domain controllers can handle the load.

**NOTE:** Changing the **Hash function** does not modify existing history records. It sets the
function to be used for new password history records. If a user has Argon2 and SHA-256 hashes in
their password history, then Password Policy Enforcer calculates both the Argon2 and SHA-256 hashes
during a password change to ensure the new password is not in the password history.

The History rule is normally not enforced when a password is reset. Select the **Enforce this rule
when a password is reset** check box to override the default behavior. You must also select the
**Enforce policy when password is reset** option in the PPS Properties page to enforce this rule
when a password is reset.

Click the **Messages** tab to customize the Password Policy Client rule inserts.

**NOTE:** The History rule is not enforced when testing passwords from the Test Policies page.

Password Policy Enforcer updates a user's password history whenever their password changes. The
password history is updated even if Password Policy Enforcer or the assigned policy is disabled. A
user's password history is deleted if the user does not have an assigned policy, or if the History
rule is disabled at the time of the password change.

Password Policy Enforcer's password history is stored in Active Directory for domain user accounts,
and in the registry for local user accounts. You can create a new Active Directory attribute for the
password history, or configure Password Policy Enforcer to use an existing attribute.

Disable Password Policy Enforcer's History rule if you do not want Password Policy Enforcer to store
the password history.

**NOTE:** Password Policy Enforcer does not store passwords in the password history, it only stores
the Argon2 or SHA-256 hashes. A salt protects the hashes from precomputed attacks, including rainbow
tables. If you do not want Password Policy Enforcer to store a password history, then leave the
History rule disabled. You can use the Windows History rule together with Password Policy Enforcer's
other rules to enforce your password policy.

Password Policy Enforcer can store up to 100 password hashes for each user, but it only stores the
minimum needed to enforce the current password policy. For example, if Password Policy Enforcer is
configured to reject the last 24 passwords, then only the last 24 password hashes are stored.
Reconfiguring Password Policy Enforcer to reject the last 30 passwords will not have an immediate
effect as only 24 password hashes are currently stored. The full effect of the new configuration
will be realized after users change their passwords six more times as Password Policy Enforcer will
then have 30 stored password hashes for each user.

Leave both the Windows and Password Policy Enforcer History rules enabled when transitioning from
one to the other. This allows the old rule to enforce the policy until the new rule has built up its
password history. The old rule can be disabled after users have completed the required number of
password changes to enforce the new rule.

As Password Policy Enforcer is limited to storing the last 100 password hashes, it is possible for
the History rule to run out of storage space before the specified number of days. Use the Minimum
Age rule to avoid this problem. For example, if the History rule is configured to not allow password
reuse for 365 days, then set the minimum password age to four or more days. Even if a user changes
their password every four days, they can only perform 91 password changes in 365 days.

## Creating a New Attribute for the Password History

Windows stores a domain user's password history in two Active Directory attributes, but these
attributes cannot be used by other applications. Password Policy Enforcer can store the password
history in a new or existing attribute. A new attribute is recommended, but you can use an existing
attribute if you do not want to extend the AD schema. An AD attribute is only needed for domain user
accounts because the password history for local user accounts is stored in the registry.

**CAUTION:** Password Policy Enforcer's password history attribute is confidential to stop
authenticated users from accessing the password history of other users. See the Microsoft Article
[Mark an attribute as confidential in Windows Server 2003 Service Pack 1](http://support.microsoft.com/kb/922836)
Microsoft article for additional information. Confidential attributes have additional protection in
Active Directory, but they are not as well protected as the Windows password history attributes.
There is a higher risk of unauthorized access to the password history if it is stored outside the
Windows password history attributes.

Follow the steps below to create a new Active Directory attribute for the password history.

**Step 1 –** Log on to the server holding the Schema Operations Master role with an account that is
a member of the Schema Admins group.

**Step 2 –** Open a Command Prompt window to the Password Policy Enforcer installation folder.

(\Program Files (x86)\Password Policy Enforcer\)

**Step 3 –** Type the following command:

: ldifde -i -f History.ldf -c "DC=X" "DC=yourdomain,DC=yourdomain"

Replacing the last parameter with your domain's DN.

**Step 4 –** Press **ENTER** and check the output for errors.

![ppe_rules_8](/img/product_docs/passwordpolicyenforcer/11.0/administration/ppe_rules_8.webp)

## Using an Existing Attribute for the Password History

Password Policy Enforcer can store the password history in an existing attribute. The desktopProfile
attribute is well suited because it is not used by Windows. Other attributes are also suitable if
they are not being used. Contact [Netwrix Support](https://www.netwrix.com/support.html) if you
would like to use an existing attribute for the password history.

## Password Histories for Local User Accounts

The password histories of local user accounts are stored in the HKLM\SECURITY\PPE Password History\
registry key. Users are not granted access the HKLM\SECURITY\ registry key by default, so a user
cannot read the password history of any user (including themselves). This is also true for members
of the Administrators group, but administrators can change the default permissions. If an
administrator accesses the password history they might be able to extract the hashes for cracking,
but they cannot extract the passwords directly because the password history does not contain any
passwords.

**CAUTION:** The password history of a local user account is not automatically deleted when the user
account is deleted. If a local user account is deleted, then another local user account is created
on the same computer with the same username, the new user will inherit the deleted user's password
history. The default registry permissions stop users from accessing their own password history, so
it is difficult for the new user to use this information. They could try to guess the deleted user's
password during a password change to see if it is rejected by the History rule, but they would only
have a few attempts to guess correctly before the old hashes are overwritten with new hashes. The
user's current password is validated, and the Windows Minimum Age rule is enforced before the
password history is checked, so every compliant and incorrect password guessed will overwrite one
hash in the password history. This information applies only to local user accounts. The password
history for domain user accounts is deleted when users are deleted.
