---
description: >-
  This article provides an overview of the Processes and Services tab within Configuration Templates, detailing how to define and manage processes and services in your Configuration Policy.
keywords:
  - Configuration Templates
  - Processes and Services
  - Whitelisted
  - Blacklisted
  - Device Management
sidebar_label: Configuration Templates: Processes and Services
tags: []
title: Configuration Templates: Processes and Services
knowledge_article_id: kA04u0000000JOzCAM
products:
  - general
---

# Configuration Templates: Processes and Services

## Overview

The Processes and Services tab allows you to define Processes and/or Services (Windows only) and their states within your Configuration Policy as either Whitelisted or Blacklisted. A key indicator of breach or malware activity is the existence of new processes or services. Likewise, configuration hardening and vulnerability mitigation always require unnecessary services and daemons to be removed or disabled. Therefore, it is important to track process lists and services and their states.

## Instructions

Process/Service names can be defined manually or imported from a donor device. Select a **donor** device on which to base your policy, then press **merge** to harvest the current services list and their state from the device. Define the desired state for the Services in the Policy, and then click **Save Settings to Device** to finish and update the policy.

Any non-necessary Services or Services you are generally unconcerned about should be marked as **Ignore State**.

### Configuration Options

1. **Uncategorized Process/Service Action**: Use this option if you want to be alerted to the presence of any new, uncategorized processes or services. This is an option as, in some situations, it may be convenient to be alerted to missing key processes.
2. **Polling Frequency**: See previous tracker notes.
3. **Define Process (Service) Name**: Processes/Services can be defined as either Required, Blacklisted, Whitelisted, or Graylisted.
   - **Required**: The Process/Service must be in the required state, and an alert will be raised if this is not the case.
   - **Whitelisted**: The Process/Service is allowed to be present, but this is not mandatory.
   - **Blacklisted**: The Process/Service is never allowed to be present, and an alert will be raised if this is not the case.
   - **Graylisted**: The process/service has not yet been allocated to another category.
4. **Pick Device**: A list of Devices will be presented, and one of these can be selected to act as the **Donor** for a Process/Service list. This is useful for capturing a **known good** device state in terms of its running processes/services.
5. **Augment existing template definition**: An existing template specification can be used as a base for a new, device-specific customized template to avoid repeated re-defining of process/service states.