---
description: >-
  This article provides step-by-step instructions for adding SSL certificates to the Log Tracker Server web interface to eliminate browser warnings.
keywords:
  - SSL certificates
  - Log Tracker Server
  - Certificate Authority
sidebar_label: Adding SSL Certificates
tags: []
title: Adding SSL Certificates to Log Tracker Server Web Interface
knowledge_article_id: kA04u0000000JbOCAU
products:
  - activity-monitor
---

# Adding SSL Certificates to Log Tracker Server Web Interface

## Overview

Log Tracker Server uses a **self-signed** certificate to authenticate the Log Tracker Server, which may be suitable for a wide range of activities within your organization. However, without taking special action (as discussed here), your browser will display a warning message when the web server is accessed, which may be annoying or unacceptable for some organizations.

To definitively remove all certificate errors that appear in browsers, you should purchase a certificate from a **Certificate Authority** and install this certificate as discussed below.

## Instructions

After installing the **Log Tracker Apache TLS** server on your platform and executing the setup procedure, perform the following actions:

1. Contact a **Certificate Authority** (CA) such as Comodo or DigiCert and indicate you would like to purchase a web certificate for the Log Tracker Server platform. Note that this is always a fee-based service, and Log Tracker cannot do this for you (for security reasons).
2. Review the Certificate Authority's instructions to you (if any). The Certificate Authority may ask for a CSR (Certificate Signing Request) file for the server. If they ask for this item, send this file to them:

   ```
   C:\Program Files (x86)\NNT Log Tracker Suite\apache-tls\ssl\correlog.csr
   ```

   *Note: The above file is created by the Log Tracker Apache TLS setup wizard and contains information regarding the name of the platform where Log Tracker Server is executing. The name of the platform, used in the URL, is critical and cannot be changed without creating a new certificate for the platform.*

3. The Certificate Authority will send you back a **.crt** file. (This file sometimes has a **.cer** suffix, but is the same file.) This is your web server security certificate, which must be installed at the Log Tracker Server site. *Note that this will normally occur ONLY after fees are paid and after the Certificate Authority has verified your company identity.*
4. Copy the file received from the Certificate Authority to the following location:

   ```
   C:\Program Files (x86)\NNT Log Tracker Suite\apache-tls\ssl\correlog.crt
   ```

   *Note: Overwrite the existing file with the purchased security certificate. It is advisable to back up both the old and new files and keep these files in a secure and private location. These files should not be made publicly available and should be considered confidential to your organization.*

5. Stop and restart the **Log Tracker Apache TLS** Service using the Windows **Services** dialog.
6. Access the Log Tracker Server website with your browser and verify that all warnings or errors are now gone.

If you still see a warning or error, then the most likely cause is that the host name in the certificate does not agree with the host name in the URL. Note that these two values must agree perfectly. For example, if the certificate contains the Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN), then that name must be used when accessing the Log Tracker Server, or an error will be displayed by the browser. The host name in the certificate is contained in the **.csr** file, generated by the Apache TLS Setup wizard. If you need to generate a new **.csr** file, run the following command:

```
C:\Program Files (x86)\NNT Log Tracker Suite\apache-tls\bin\MAKE_CERT.bat
```

For more information on Log Tracker Security Certificates, please contact support.

## Related Articles

- [How to Add Palo Alto Device to a Proxy Agent as a Proxy Device in Change Tracker Gen7](#)
- [How to Delete a Device in Log Tracker](#)
- [Log Tracker - Types of Authentication](#)
- [Log Tracker Tags Facility](#)
- [How to Use CloseTicket.exe to Immediately Close Log Tracker Tickets](#)