---
description: >-
  This article provides a detailed description of the files contained within the agent installation path for agent version 7.0.0.32.
keywords:
  - agent files
  - Change Tracker
  - installation path
sidebar_label: Agent Files Overview
tags: []
title: Brief Information on the Agent Files
knowledge_article_id: kA04u0000000JbnCAE
products:
  - change-tracker
---

# Brief Information on the Agent Files

## Overview

Below is a description of the files contained within the agent installation path as of agent version 7.0.0.32:

- **Agent.id** – When an agent is installed, it is assigned a unique ID, which is stored in this file.
- **MasterDevice.json** – This file contains the details of the master proxy device, which is always the local agent. It also includes parameters on how the agent interacts with remote systems/databases that it has been tasked with monitoring.
- **ProxiedDevices.json** – This file contains an array of all the devices being proxied by the agent. For devices where you cannot install the agent, they will be proxied; therefore, the agent stores the names of the devices currently being proxied for its records.
- **Events.db** – This file stores the events data captured by Change Tracker.
- **Config.xml** – This file contains the device configuration data, holding information about what directories, registry items, and security policies are being tracked by the agent.
- **Store.db** – All of the baseline information is stored in this file.
- **Rolling-log.txt** – This file contains log data generated by the agent that reports to Change Tracker. It is helpful for troubleshooting when issues arise, as it holds data such as any errors that have occurred with the agent, when compliance reports run, any errors with the compliance reports that have run, and when the agent goes online/offline.
- **HubDetails.xml** – This file contains details related to the Change Tracker server, allowing the agent to authenticate to the Change Tracker server. Information such as the username, password, HUB URL, and proxy information are stored here.

## Related Articles

- [How to Add Palo Alto Device to a Proxy Agent as a Proxy Device in Change Tracker Gen7](https://kb.netwrix.com/8164)
- [How to fix the "Check Log for Details" message in the event details](https://kb.netwrix.com/8133)
- [Change Tracker Gen 7 Change Log / Update Log / ReadMe.txt Documents for Agent/Hub](https://kb.netwrix.com/8368)
- [Rolling-Log Fix: "Hub Offline, connection retries exhausted (The remote server returned an error: (403) Forbidden.)"](https://kb.netwrix.com/8307)
- [Rolling-Log Fix: "Couldn't get credentials for remote platform discovery on"](https://kb.netwrix.com/8306)