---
description: >-
  This article discusses key considerations for using the Netwrix FAST™ Cloud, including monitoring strategies and patching schedules to optimize change control.
keywords:
  - Netwrix FAST
  - Change Control
  - Monitoring Strategies
  - Patching Schedules
  - Threat Intelligence
sidebar_label: FAST Cloud Usage Considerations
tags: []
title: The Netwrix FAST™ Cloud Usage Considerations
knowledge_article_id: kA04u0000000JX7CAM
products:
  - change-tracker
---

# The Netwrix FAST™ Cloud Usage Considerations

## Overview

The Netwrix FAST™ Cloud, powered by external Threat Intelligence feeds, enhances Change Control and simplifies the event handling process by automating analysis and approvals. File changes can be automatically verified as ‘known safe’ upon detection, minimizing Change Noise and flagging only unrecognized File Changes for investigation.

Netwrix FAST is a powerful solution for change detection; however, to maximize its benefits, it is crucial to configure your Change Tracker correctly. Here are some dos and don'ts to consider when working with the Netwrix FAST Cloud.

### Do be specific with your monitoring

Take time to collaborate with your Netwrix Support representative to compile monitoring templates that accurately represent your organization. While the FAST whitelist contains millions of files common to major operating systems and applications, it will not include a record of all files in your environment.

### Don't monitor the entire drive!

The temptation with FAST is to point Change Tracker at all files on a single drive. This approach will generate a large number of change events, particularly from files that will never be listed by FAST, such as log files, resulting in a massive amount of unplanned changes to review.

### Do use planned change rules

If you have proprietary files that need tracking but will not be listed in the FAST Cloud, work with Netwrix Support to create a planned change rule set. This will ensure these files are captured by an alternative FAST rule and marked as planned.

### Do adjust your patching schedules

If you are currently patching immediately after a scheduled release or have automatic updates enabled, consider that these known good file hashes may not have reached the FAST Cloud, as they are still being analyzed by our whitelisting experts. The recommended best practice is to wait 2-4 weeks after a vendor releases a patch before rolling it out in your environment, if possible and if the patch is not critical. This waiting period ensures that the FAST Cloud contains all necessary file hashes to fully remediate changes generated by the patch and mitigates potential post-patch issues that could lead to system failure until the vendor releases a fix.

That is all there is to it! Hopefully, these points will guide you in using the FAST Cloud. If you have any questions, please contact Netwrix Support through the [Helpdesk Portal](https://supportnntws.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/3) or by emailing [Support@nntws.com](mailto:Support@nntws.com). To enhance your Change Control experience, you may also want to check out Netwrix’s Change Control Service, a managed service option designed to improve your ability to contain and control changes within your environment: [Netwrix Change Control Program](https://www.newnettechnologies.com/nnt-recommended-change-control-program.html).